README.md, before:

Love-to-Code User Library (and Server Image)
=======================================================

This project provides a runtime library for use with the Love-to-Code and
the ltc-os that it ships with.

It also provides a Makefile, and several example projects.

Finally, it includes a Dockerfile image that sets up an Apache server that
runs a Codebender-compatible API capable of servicing requests.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/chibitronics/ltc-compiler-layer.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/chibitronics/ltc-compiler-layer)

Directory Structure
-------------------

The directory structure of this project separates the core support files out
from the example projects and the Docker image source files.

    support/   # Source files and support libraries for Arduino compatibility
    projects/  # A selection of example projects
    builder/   # Required files for the Docker image

Projects
========

The Projects/ directory contains many example projects that can provide a good
starting point for understanding how LtC works.  Oftentimes, a new example
project will be created to test a new OS-level feature.

Projects are designed to be easy to compile and quick to setup.

Building an Example Project
---------------------------

To build a project, set TRGT to your compiler's prefix, enter the directory,
and type "make".

For exmaple, if your compiler is arm-none-eabi-gcc, run:

    cd projects/blink
    export TRGT=arm-none-eabi-
    make

Alternatively, you can specify TRGT as part of the "make" command:

    cd projects/blink
    make TRGT=arm-none-eabi-


Creating a New Example Project
------------------------------

To create a new project, copy an existing project into a new directory.  A
good base project is "minimal/".

There are no other setup instructions.  Just type "make".  All .cpp, .c, and .S
(assembly) files will be automatically included.

In case you need to recreate / move some files, you might want to run "make clean".

On Windows, "make clean" may not work, so simply remove the .obj/ directory.


Programming the Output File
---------------------------

To program the output, either use gdb on the resulting .elf file, or use a
modulator such as the Rust-based https://crates.io/crates/ltc-modulate


Builder Image
=============

This directory also contains support files to build a Docker image capable of
acting as a build server.

Building the Docker Image
-------------------------

To build the Docker image, simply use "docker build":

    docker build -t ltc-compiler .

The Dockerfile is set up to be multiarch-compatible, however there is no Makefile
wrapped around it to do actual multiarch builds.  Additionally, you need a special
multiarch-enabled builder, or you need to run it on multiple platforms.

The Dockerfile contains annotations for armhf, in the form of comments.  A Makefile
defined at https://eyskens.me/multiarch-docker-images/ (stored in Github at
https://github.com/multiarch/dockerfile/tree/master/method-g) provides a shell
script/Makefile that can be used to build on various architectures.

Deploying the Docker Image
--------------------------

The image exposes port 80.  If you want SSL, you will need to set up a reverse proxy.

If you need to set CORS headers, you can do so with an environment variable.

An example invocation to start the server listening on port 3457 might be:

    docker run --rm --name ltc-compile-node -it -p 3457:80 -e 'CORS_DOMAINS=*' ltc-compiler

Commit message:

README: document recent builder changes
This documents the new environment variables that have been added to
the builder, as well as the multiarch improvements.

Signed-off-by: Sean Cross <sean@xobs.io>

README.md, after:

Love-to-Code User Library (and Server Image)
=======================================================

This project provides a runtime library for use with the Love-to-Code and
the ltc-os that it ships with.

It also provides a Makefile, and several example projects.

Finally, it includes a Dockerfile image that sets up an Apache server that
runs a Codebender-compatible API capable of servicing requests.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/chibitronics/ltc-compiler-layer.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/chibitronics/ltc-compiler-layer)

Directory Structure
-------------------

The directory structure of this project separates the core support files out
from the example projects and the Docker image source files.

    support/   # Source files and support libraries for Arduino compatibility
    projects/  # A selection of example projects
    builder/   # Required files for the Docker image

Projects
========

The Projects/ directory contains many example projects that can provide a good
starting point for understanding how LtC works.  Oftentimes, a new example
project will be created to test a new OS-level feature.

Projects are designed to be easy to compile and quick to setup.

Building an Example Project
---------------------------

To build a project, set TRGT to your compiler's prefix, enter the directory,
and type "make".

For exmaple, if your compiler is arm-none-eabi-gcc, run:

    cd projects/blink
    export TRGT=arm-none-eabi-
    make

Alternatively, you can specify TRGT as part of the "make" command:

    cd projects/blink
    make TRGT=arm-none-eabi-


Creating a New Example Project
------------------------------

To create a new project, copy an existing project into a new directory.  A
good base project is "minimal/".

There are no other setup instructions.  Just type "make".  All .cpp, .c, and .S
(assembly) files will be automatically included.

In case you need to recreate / move some files, you might want to run "make clean".

On Windows, "make clean" may not work, so simply remove the .obj/ directory.


Programming the Output File
---------------------------

To program the output, either use gdb on the resulting .elf file, or use a
modulator such as the Rust-based https://crates.io/crates/ltc-modulate


Builder Image
=============

This directory also contains support files to build a Docker image capable of
acting as a build server.

Building the Docker Image
-------------------------

To build the Docker image, simply use "docker build":

    docker build -t ltc-compiler .

The Dockerfile is set up to be multiarch-compatible, however due to a bug
in the current version of Docker you need to manually update the FROM image
on ARM, otherwise you'll end up with an armel environment instead of an armeb
one.  To do this, you can run:

 sed -i "s!^FROM !FROM arm32v7/!g" Dockerfile

Deploying the Docker Image
--------------------------

The image exposes port 80.  If you want SSL, you will need to set up a reverse proxy.

The application supports some tuning, via the use of environment variables:

    COMPILE_TIMEOUT: The maximum number of seconds a compile can run for.  Defaults to 20.
    COMPILE_TIMEOUT_COLD: The maximum number of seconds the first compile can run for when the cache is missing (i.e. the first time.)
    MEMORY_LIMIT_PCT: The limit at which /healthcheck will report "out of memory"

An example invocation to start the server listening on port 3457 with a compile timeout of 5 seconds might be:

    docker run --rm --name ltc-compile-node -it -p 3457:80 -e COMPILE_TIMEOUT=5 ltc-compiler

Health Check
------------

The web server exposes a health check, accessible by going to /healthcheck.
Currently this prints out memory usage, and includes a "status" field that is
either "okay" or lists an error indicating what is not okay.
